---
layout: page
title: "The Project's Philosophy <small>Or: Why I Think It Is a Good Idea and You Should Too</small>"
date: 2013-07-30 16:58
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
---

# Preamble

While the project is titled, **Improving Computer Literacy using The
Raspberry Pi**, I do not like the term.  I used it here only because
*Computer Literacy* is a well known and reasonably (mis)understood.

There is a great deal of talk about *Computer Literacy*, what it
means, when is it achieved, how we should teach it, etc. I doubt that
I am&mdash;or ever will be&mdash;in a position to answer or even asses
proposals on these questions. I say this not because I do not consider
myself qualified. I do believe I am, and I think I could argue for
that assertion if it were necessary&mdash;but I will not do that
here. This is not the purpose of this article.  Instead, I would like
to use the term *Computer Resiliency* to describe what is, or should
be, taught in introductory Computer Science courses.

Computer Resiliency is a new term to me. I was only recently
introduced to it in July of 2013 by [Dr. Jacqueline
E. Rice](http://www.cs.uleth.ca/~rice/), who attributes it to
[L. Nicole Wilson](http://www.cs.uleth.ca/~wilsonn/bio.html).  I will,
from here on in, prefer the use of computer resiliency to computer
literacy.  Though it should be noted that, at least some level,
computer literacy is a prerequisite for computer resiliency.  But lets
not confuse things too much just yet.

The term, computer resiliency&mdash;much like computer literacy
produces literate computer learners&mdash;transforms learners in to
resilient computer users, i.e. those types of users that posses
sufficient knowledge to perform novel computer based tasks with by
exploiting what they already know.

Computer literacy, to me, is ill-equipped to convey this meaning.

# Computer Resiliency

So why resiliency over literacy?

One reason to prefer the use of resiliency over literacy is because of
the artificiality of the a classroom setting. Classes material is
necessarily contrived: the real world is messy, rarely follows rules
and generally escapes simple codification. (Permit me the
generalization for a moment.)


<!--

## Inverting the subject

This document outlines a proposed change to the Computer Science 0500
course, offered in the First Nations Transition Program (FNTP) in the
Department of Native American Studies.

I propose to invert the class: that is, to make the topic of the class
the use of computers and Computer Science as tools rather than
focusing on them as a topic themselves. To achieve this, the course
will focus on storytelling, and how a story might be represented
digitally.  This may take the form of writing, pictures, sound, levels
of interactivity as well as various other forms of available
multimedia.  Storytelling is of particular relevance to First Nations
(FN), in part due to traditional oral stories, and it is broad enough
an area to integrate many types of tools whose functions will
translate to other uses in other areas.

# Acknowledgements

Better late than never. Right?

The idea for the changes proposed by this project stem from a number
of sources.  I attribute much of the impetus to pursue these changes
based on personal frustration; however, I'd be remis to exclude those
to whom I am indebted for their opinions on, and practices in
education that have shaped my own views.

Still compiling this long list...

-->
